---
title: '哲学-Wisdom of Life (Position)'
date: 2025-10-19
permalink: /posts/2025/10/blog-post-6/
tags:
  - 哲学
  - 叔本华
---

读书笔记： 《Wisdom of Life》叔本华


Position
======
For Position, or a person in the estimation of others, it is divided into five parts, Reputation, Pride, Rank, Honor, Fame.

Repulation
----- 
Almost all human beings spare no effort, to in the end raise themselves in the estimation of others. (所以接受自己的平凡也是快乐的一部分) We should be careful to dissuade people from setting too much store by what others think of them, while most people set the utmost value on what other poeple think, more than themselves' consciousness. Our worries, vexations, bothers, troubles, uneasy apprehensions and strenous efforts are due to what other people will say in a large amount. Envy and hatred are very often traceable to a similar source (But we live in a society, how to balance ourselves and environments' feedback). So we are supposed to pay more attention to solid relities and enjoy them with less interruption.

Pride
-----
Pride comes from within, while Vanity comes from out, which is also pride's worsest foe. The cheapest sort of pride is nation pride (but it's the foundation of nation). Individuality is far more important thing than nationality (not only nationality, but also than any people group. And I don't like give sterotype on a specific people group.) 

Rank
-----
Rank, a purely conventional value. its method is to exact an artificial respect, which Schopenhauer thinks it's mere farce(闹剧). (But ranks are everywhere, I still feel happy if UC Berkeley ranks higher among universities, as well as USTC. Rank is also very limited, may blind people, but kind of offering some information on how is it in one specific topic, I don't think it's toatlly wrong or useless.)
